GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS DATA & DECISIONS
STANFORD UNIVERSITY FALL 2025
Regression Project Assignment
This note provides detailed information about the capstone project assignment.
The capstone project provides you the opportunity to analyze a problem of your
choice, using the analytical tools that are taught in D&D.
Objectives
The immediate objective of the capstone project is to provide practical experience
at data analysis and regression modeling. The statistical models developed in
D&D are used for decision-making in a wide variety of settings, and the capstone
project assignment is designed to bridge the gap between classroom learning and
real-world application. A second objective is to provide teamwork experience and
project management experience addressing quantitative problems.
The capstone project involves four basic steps: (1) Identify, as a group, a ques-
tion that can be answered with regression analysis. (2) Obtain suitable data that
can be used to analyze the problem. This may involve data from your former em-
ployer, a former client, prior academic experience, or publicly available data. (3)
Perform the analysis using techniques discussed in class. (4) Communicate and
document your results in a clear, polished report.
Forming Groups
The assignment is to be completed in groups of at most 4 students, from your
same D&D section. You can form a group among your classmates based on broad
interests. Alternatively, you can request to be assigned to a group by filling up this
form as soon as possible: https://forms.gle/EDbWg3KgcWXnYN1s5
We encourage you to spend a few moments before then looking through the
example projects that we have posted on Canvas. From these projects you can
quickly gain a general understanding of capstone projects and what types of data
you use.
1
Choosing a Topic
Once you have formed a group, you should decide on a topic. There are two main
sources for project topics:
1. Publicly available datasets If you select this option, you should start by look-
ing through the list of publicly available datasats linked on Canvas. will then
need to do the following:
2. Source your own project topic: ideally motivated by a company you have worked
for in the past or see yourself working for in the future. You can also see
Canvas for some examples of publicly available data sets. need to do the fol-
lowing: If you are unsure about your project, please consult with us (the CAs
or me) either via e-mail or in person. Again, look at the sample projects for
examples.
Logistics
By the end of the day on Thursday October 16 : Submit a very brief description
of your idea via https://forms.gle/EDbWg3KgcWXnYN1s5, detailing your
project topic and where you plan to find data. In the form, list the names of all
members of your group.
On Sunday November 9 , as part of a lab assignment, a project proposal is
due. The purpose of this proposal is for me to provide you with some advance
feedback on your project. The project proposal should be a one page document
with the following information: the names of the project members, the project title,
a concise statement of what questions are to be addressed, and a summary of the
data to be used and its source. Be sure to describe what information is contained
in a typical data point from the data to be used - i.e., is it one customer, one person,
one firm, one country, one year, etc. Most importantly, you must make it clear
what your main left hand side (Y) variable is — the data you wish to explain. You
should also describe the most important right hand side (X) variables in your data.
Your final report is due Friday December 4 . The report itself should be (at
most) 10 pages in length (not including tables and figures – see below). The first
page must be a one-page Executive Summary of the problem, principal findings,
and recommendations. The body of the report should include a detailed state-
ment of the problem and questions that are addressed; the data and their sources;
the analysis conducted and regression results; and your principal findings, recom-
mendations and conclusions. In your analysis, we expect you to carefully justify
the regression model(s), to present alternative regressions specifications (if appro-
priate), and to verify that the standard regression assumptions are satisfied (as
best as possible) for your model. You are encouraged to present informative plots
2
and descriptive statistics that contribute to the analysis and conclusions. You are
also encouraged to think about what are the inferences possible from your analy-
sis, what the limits of your analysis are, and what recommendations (if any), you
would give to your client based on your analysis.
In addition to the ten pages of the main report, you may include a technical
appendix containing supplementary data tables and graphs. If your data can be
printed onto several pages or less, the data set should be included in this appendix,
clearly labeled for the reader. The final report should be a polished document
of the sort presentable to a client after a professional consulting study. Unlike
some consulting reports, however, your report will be read by someone with an
advanced knowledge of statistics. Reports should be submitted via Canvas. Please
be sure that the names of all the students in your group are on the report.
Finally, on the last day of class (Friday December 4), each group will make a
short (few minutes with max three slides) presentation in class, explaining their
project and their main findings.
Grading Criteria
Each project group should hand in only one proposal and one capstone project re-
port. All project team members will receive the same grade on the project. Besides
the usual administrative criteria (e.g., the project meets the deadline), we will use
the following criteria:
1. Originality of the problem.
2. Usefulness and practicality of the analysis.
3. Quality and correctness of the analysis.
4. Quality of the exposition, writing, and presentation.
Because this is a D&D project, item 3 receives more weight than the other three
criteria do individually. We take into account, on a more subjective basis, un-
usual effort or findings that are valuable to a real client. We also give credit for
entrepreneurial, clever and difficult data collection efforts.
Strategies and Recommendations
A useful technique is to write the analysis as though it was a consulting report.
Here are project titles for some of the better projects that have been done in the
recent past:
3
• Analysis of Teacher Retention Factors for Teach for America
• Feeding the Hungry in San Francisco: An Analysis of the Factors
Influencing the Demand for Free Meals at St. Anthony Dining Room
• Determinants of Patients Leaving Without Treatment and Wait Times in Emergency
Rooms
• Analyzing Data to Accurately Predict SAT Score Improvement Guarantees
• Math & Marijuana: Factors affecting math performance
Each group must select a topic and obtain the data. Part of your grade depends
on the originality and relevance of your topic and the data. Regressing stock prices
on a market index is not very original, though it is perhaps relevant to finance. On
the other hand, forecasting the sales of a software product in different stores is
more original and requires unique data. In the past, students have used data from
employers, former clients, surveys, government agencies, library references, and
local area businesses.
In general, the best and most rewarding capstone projects have been those
where the students worked to address a specific problem faced by a specific com-
pany, non-profit institution, or government agency. You are encouraged, indeed
expected, to use whatever industry or worldly knowledge your group possess to
identify and select your topic.
Obtaining the data: some considerations
There are several options that you can follow to obtain the data:
Own firm/past experience: You may be able to use data from your previous em-
ployer. Students tend to find this option very rewarding, as they can use their
specific knowledge to make the analysis more insightful. It can also speed up
the coordination with the firm to obtain the data.
GSB Library: Stanford University is subscribed to a number of important busi-
ness databases. If there is a particular topic that you would like to explore,
you can sign up for an orientation session with a librarian to get some help.
The GSB library also provides a guide with many data links:
http://libguides.stanford.edu/az.php
Websites: There is an increasing number of websites that offer public data sets for
competitions. There are also researchers that make their data available. We
keep a current list on Canvas. Here are some examples:
4
• www.kaggle.com and challengedata.ens.fr (Data competition
websites)
• http://people.stern.nyu.edu/wgreene/Econometrics/PanelDataSets.htm
(Research data on several topics)
• Government data from the Census, the US BLS, the US DOT, and many
others, including many international data sources.
Regarding the quality of data, here are some hints that may help:
• Topic/Variables: It is essential that you understand what your variables are,
to test meaningful relationships in the data. If you have additional industry
or institutional knowledge, it is even better. Even though this may seem
obvious, some competition data websites provide codified data where you
cannot tell what each variable represents!
• Size: It is useful if you can have more than a hundred observations. You
also want to keep the size manageable: if you have a very large data set
(gigabytes), you should probably focus on a particular subset of it.
• Categorical vs Numerical variables:It is very useful if your data have at least
one numerical explanatory variable (e.g. price, quantity), versus categorical
variables (e.g. color, day of the week).
5
